Australian Broadcasting Corporation   Australian Broadcasting Corporation One   Australian Broadcasting Corporation News   Australian Broadcasting Corporation Two   Australian Broadcasting Corporation History   Australian Broadcasting Corporation Radio   Australian Broadcasting Corporation Television   Australian Broadcasting Corporation Board   Australian Broadcasting Corporation Commercial   Australian Broadcasting Corporation Sport   
Australian Broadcasting Corporation 

The Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) is Australia's national broadcaster founded in 1929. It is currently principally funded by direct grants from the Australian government, but is expressly independent of government and partisan politics. The ABC plays a leading role in journalistic independence and is fundamental in the history of broadcasting in Australia.

Modelled on the BBC in the United Kingdom, it was originally financed by consumer licence fees on broadcasting receivers. Licence fees were abolished in 1973 and replaced principally by direct government grants, as well as revenue from commercial activities related to its core broadcasting mission.

The ABC now provides television, radio, online and mobile services throughout metropolitan and regional Australia and overseas through ABC Australia and Radio Australia. The ABC headquarters is in Ultimo, an inner-city suburb of Sydney, New South Wales.
Origin

Founded in 1929 as the Australian Broadcasting Company, the ABC was a Government licensed consortium of private entertainment and content providers, authorised under supervision to broadcast on the airwaves using a two-tiered system. The "A" system derived its funds primarily from the licence fees levied on the purchasers of the radio receivers, with an emphasis on building the radio wave infrastructure into regional and remote areas, whilst the "B" system relied on privateers and their capacity to establish viable enterprises using the new technology. Following the general downward economic trends of the era, as entrepreneurial ventures in National infrastructure struggled with viability, the "Company" was subsequently acquired to become a fully state-owned corporation on 1 July 1932 and renamed as Australian Broadcasting Commission, re-aligning more closely to the British, BBC model.

The Australian Broadcasting Corporation Act 1983 changed the name of the organisation to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, effective 1 July 1983. Although funded and owned by the government, the ABC remains editorially independent as ensured through the Australian Broadcasting Corporation Act 1983.

The ABC is sometimes informally referred to as "Aunty", originally in imitation of the British Broadcasting Corporation's nickname.
History
1920s–40s

The first public radio station in Australia opened in Sydney on 23 November 1923 under the call sign 2SB with other stations in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart following. A licensing scheme, administered by the Postmaster-General's Department, was soon established allowing certain stations government funding, albeit with restrictions placed on their advertising content.

Following a 1927 royal commission inquiry into radio licensing issues, the government established the National Broadcasting Service which subsequently took over a number of the larger funded stations. It also nationalised the Australian Broadcasting Company which had been created by entertainment interests to supply programs to various radio stations. On 1 July 1932, the Australian Broadcasting Commission was established, taking over the operations of the National Broadcasting Service and eventually establishing offices in each of Australia's capital cities.

Over the next four years the stations were reformed into a cohesive broadcasting organisation through regular program relays, coordinated by a centralised bureaucracy. The Australian broadcast radio spectrum was constituted of the ABC and the commercial sector.

News broadcasts were initially restricted, due to pressure from Sir Keith Murdoch, who controlled many Australian newspapers. However, journalists such as Frank Dixon and John Hinde began to subvert the agreements in the late 1930s. in 1939, Warren Denning was appointed to Canberra as the first ABC political correspondent, after Murdoch had refused to allow his newspapers to cover a speech by Joseph Lyons.

In 1942 The Australian Broadcasting Act was passed, giving the ABC the power to decide when, and in what circumstances, political speeches should be broadcast. Directions from the Minister about whether or not to broadcast any matter now had to be made in writing, and any exercise of the power had to be mentioned in the Commission's Annual Report. It was used only once, in 1963. In the same year, "Kindergarten of the Air" began on ABC Radio in Perth, and was later broadcast nationally. In 1944 18-year-old Patricia Delaney, of Sydney, was the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's only girl cadet announcer, and the youngest member of announcing staff.

    Australian Broadcasting Corporation, 1920-1949
    Current Affairs: 7.30, ABC News, Australian Story, Back Roads, Four Corners, Insiders, Landline, Media Watch, Q&A, The Drum.
    Comedy: Birds of a feather, Growing Up Gracefully, It's A Date, Luke Warm Sex, Shaun Micallef's MAD AS HELL, Utopia
    Documentaries and Factual: Antiques Roadshow, Ask The Doctor, Back Roads, Brian Cox: Life Of A Universe, Catalyst, City In The Sky, Compass, David Attenborough's Natural History Museum Alive, Dream Build, Enigma Man: A Stone Age Mystery, Grand Designs, Grand Designs New Zealand, The Checkout, Q&A, Joanna Lumley's India, Mary Berry's Absolute Favourites, Media Watch.
    Drama: Agatha Raisin, Cleverman, Death In Paradise, Doc Martin, Father Brown, Happy Valley, Humans, Line Of Duty, Midsomer Murders, Prime Suspect 1973, Pulse
    Entertainment: Adam Hills: The Last Leg, Eggheads, Gardening Australia, Grand Designs, Growing Up Grafefully, Hard Quiz, Pointless, QI, Antiques Roadshow, Short Cuts To Glory, The Checkout, The House, You Can't Ask That
    Indigenous: Cleverman
    Environment: Wild Life At The Zoo, Landline, Gardening Australia
    News: 7.30, ABC News, Australian Story, Back Roads, Four Corners, Insiders, Landline, Media Watch, Offsiders, Q&A, The Drum.
    Sport: Golf: PGA TOUR Highlights, Offsiders
    Special Events
    Science: Ask The Doctor, Becoming Superhuman, Brian Cox: Life Of A Universe, Catalyst, Gardening Australia, Humans, Stargazing Live, Todd Sampson's Life On The Line

ABC HD has the same programs as ABC but is in high definition.

ABC Comedy has comedy and was renamed on 4 December 2017 from ABC 2.

ABC Me is another TV channel, but with a focus for primary school children, 6–15 years old. It broadcasts a range of genres, including comedy, drama, music, animation, extreme sports, wildlife and news-based programmes.

ABC Kids is a TV channel for children under 6, with educational programs.

ABC NEWS is a 24-hour news channel with news related programs, such as News Breakfast, Weekend Breakfast, ABC News Mornings, ABC News at Noon, ABC News Afternoons, ABC News — Early Edition, 7.30, Insiders, Four Corners, Behind the News, Q&A, Catalyst, Landline, Offsiders, One Plus One, The Business, The Drum, The Quarters, The World, State to State, Capital Hill
Studios

The ABC operates ABC Studios. ABC, the Corporation's original television service, receives the bulk of funding for television and shows first-run news, and ABC Kids.
Online

An experimental Multimedia Unit was established in 1995, charged with developing policy for the ABC's work in web publishing. This unit continued until 2000, when the New Media division was formed, bringing together the ABC's online output as a division similar to Television or Radio. The division had over a million pages of material published by late 2003.

In 2001 the New Media division became New Media and Digital Services, reflecting the broader remit to develop content for digital platforms such as digital television. In addition to ABC Online, the division also had responsibility over the ABC's two digital television services, Fly TV and the ABC Kids channel, until their closure in 2003. In March 2005 the division oversaw the launch of ABC2, a free-to-air digital television channel, in effect a replacement for ABC Kids and Fly.

In conjunction with the ABC's radio division, New Media and Digital Services implemented the ABC's first podcasts in December 2004. By mid-2006 the ABC had become an international leader in podcasting with over fifty podcast programmes delivering hundreds of thousands of downloads per week, including trial video podcasts of The Chaser's War on Everything and jtv.

In February 2007, the New Media & Digital Services division was dissolved and divided up amongst other areas of the ABC. It was replaced by a new Innovation division, to manage ABC Online and investigate new technologies for the ABC.In 2015 the Innovation division was replaced with the Digital Network division.
International

Australia Network, formerly ABC Asia Pacific, is an international satellite television service operated by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, funded by advertising and grants from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Aimed at the Asia-Pacific region, the service broadcasts a mixture of English language programming, including general entertainment, sport, and current affairs.

ABC Radio Australia is an international satellite and internet radio service with transmissions aimed at East Asia and the Pacific Islands, although its signals are also audible in many other parts of the world. It features programmes in various languages spoken in these regions, including Mandarin, Indonesian, Vietnamese, Khmer and Tok Pisin. Before 31 January 2017 Radio Australia broadcast shortwave radio signals which were terminated in favour of online and satellite radio.

Radio Australia bulletins are also carried on WRN Broadcast, available via satellite in Europe and North America.
Commercial

ABC Commercial is the division of the ABC responsible for pursuing new sources of revenue for the Corporation. It is composed of ABC Retail, ABC Consumer Publishing and Content Sales, as well as ABC Resource Hire. ABC retail outlets were established in 1974. All profits from the sale of consumer product and production services return to the Corporation to reinvest in programme-making.
Orchestras

Up until the installation of disc recording equipment in 1935, all content broadcast on the ABC was produced live, including music. For this purpose, the ABC established broadcasting orchestras in each state, and in some centres also employed choruses and dance bands. This became known as the ABC Concert Music Division, which was controlled by the Federal Director of Music – the first of whom was W. G. James.

There are currently six state symphony orchestras:

    Adelaide Symphony Orchestra
    Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
    Queensland Symphony Orchestra
    Sydney Symphony Orchestra
    Tasmanian Symphony Orchestra
    West Australian Symphony Orchestra

The orchestras were corporatised in the 1990s, and were divested into independent companies on 1 January 2007.
Lissajous curve logo

The ABC logo is one of the most recognisable logos in Australia. In the early years of television, the ABC had been using Lissajous curves as fillers between programmes. In July 1963, the ABC conducted a staff competition to create a new logo for use on television, stationery, publications, microphone badges and ABC vehicles. In 1965, ABC graphics designer Bill Kennard, who had been experimenting with telerecording of the cathode ray oscilloscope displays, submitted a design which was part of the waveform from an oscilloscope. The letters "ABC" were added to the design and it was adopted as the ABC's official logo. Kennard was presented with £25 for his design.

On 19 October 1974, the Lissajous curve design experienced its first facelift with the line thickened to allow for colour to be used. It would also be treated to the ‘over and under’ effect, showing the crossover of the line in the design. This logo would be served as the longest-running design with a lifespan of 44 years and 28 on its first on-air run. To celebrate its 70th anniversary on 1 July 2002, the ABC adopted a new logo, which was created by (Annette) Harcus Design in 2001. This logo utilized a silver 3D texture but the crossover design was left intact. This logo would then be used across the ABC's media outlets. However, some brands may continue to use this logo. The 2002 silver logo is no longer in use by the corporation, with the exception of some of the ABC's radio station logos. After the on-air revival of the 1974 logo since 2014, the ABC gradually reinstated the classic symbol while using a new logotype in 2018. The change comes with a press release that the ABC released on 12 February announcing a new brand positioning under its tagline, Yours.
